---
layout: page
title: Programs
description: Marlborough STEM+ Programs Computer Science Robotics Engineering
permalink: /programs/
---

{% include base.html %}
<img width="50%" itemprop="image" class="img-rounded" src="{{ base }}/assets/img/video_game_cabinet.jpg" alt="Marlborough STEM+ Program">

### Computer Science

Marlborough offers a robust, project-based Computer Science curriculum,
including coding classes at all levels.  All coding classes are project-based.
First year coding students choose projects involving interactive computer
graphics, video games, and/or generative art, using the Processing language.
Students who want to study computer science at a deeper level enroll in AP
Computer Science A, where they learn object-oriented design and software
development with the Java language.  AP Computer Science students also complete
a project, usually a video game or interactive animation.  After AP Computer
Science, students in Honors Computer Science Projects have the opportunity to
work on longer term projects in areas that interest them.  These projects can
involve data analysis, music visualization, 3D graphics, microcontrollers,
wearable art, or whatever else they are interested in.  Students also have the
opportunity to learn to code in some math and physics classes (Python,
Scratch), as well as electives such as _Art and Technology: An Intersection_.

### Robotics 

Marlborough is home to an active and award-winning FIRST Technical Challenge
(FTC) robotics program. Students from all grade levels participate in the
construction and programming of robots designed to compete in an annual robot
game. In addition to competing, students explore careers in the STEM fields by
interacting with the local engineering community and seeing the real world
applications of STEM skills. Yearly outreach events contribute to the program's
mission of showing others, especially girls, the power of STEM education and
robotics.  

### Engineering

To supplement the countless engineering experiences students get in STEM
courses and clubs, Marlborough offers a year long engineering course. One of
the goals of the course is to provide students a direct opportunity to learn
about the different fields of engineering in high school, so they are more
informed when it comes time to select a specific engineering major in college.
The curriculum for the course takes students through a series of projects that
require them to discover and use the engineering design process over and over
again. Through the projects, students learn how to design a product for a
specific customer, collect and analyze data, use data to make design decisions,
program electronics and write technical reports. As an added bonus, students
may use this course to fulfill one of their three lab sciences required for
graduation.

### Student STEM Committee 

The Student STEM Committee organizes organizes school-wide events, including
hands-on workshops, presentations from professional scientists and engineers,
and field trips to technology companies.  The Student STEM Committee helps
organize the STEM + Arts Gallery and SPARC Celebration events.  They also
communicate with the various STEM clubs on campus, and publicize the STEM
activities that are happening each week.

<br/>
<small>
_This website was built with the
[Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/) static site generator, and is based on the
[Jekflix](https://github.com/thiagorossener/jekflix-template) template._
</small>

