---
layout: post
title: "Robotics Inter-League Tournament"
author: Dr. Kessner and Mr. Witman
date: '2019-02-09'
image: /assets/img/2019-02-09-robotics-ilt-2.jpg
introduction:  All four robotics teams competed at the Inter League
               Tournament at Monrovia High School.
tags: ["Robotics"]
---

Our four robotics teams (Marlbots, Curiosity, Cosmos, Asteria) traveled to the
FTC Inter League Tournament at Monrovia High School on Saturday, February 9.

[Photos: Preparing for the tournament](https://photos.app.goo.gl/EG8cy5ivv5tvkFpj8)

[Photos: At the Inter League Tournament!](https://photos.app.goo.gl/i6YMLv2iwxjSUWMYA)

* The Marlbots were the winning alliance captain and won the "Design" award in
  recognition of their overall design process and use of CAD to design and
  fabricate their robot.  The Marlbots have advanced to the LA Regional
  Championship, which will be held on Saturday March 9 at Monrovia High School.

* Curiosity received a ton of recognition from the judges, including 2nd Runner
  up for "Think" Award (for detailed documentation in their engineering
  notebook), 2nd runner up for "Innovate" Award (for a unique and well designed
  robot mechanism), 2nd Runner Up Control (for implementing electronic systems
  that help the driver or the robot during autonomous navigation), and a won
  the "Judges" award (for their project to create prosthetics for dogs)

* Cosmos won 4 out of 5 matches and also received the 1st Runner Up for the
  "Promote" Award (for creating a compelling promotional video)

* Asteria ended qualifying with the FIFTH highest offensive power ranking, a
  metric that measures point scoring ability. They actually had the highest
  ranking of any Marlborough team in this metric.

All four teams fought hard, kept a positive attitude, and did a fantastic job
representing the school.  We were extremely proud of the poise, passion, and
support for one another that the Marlborough teams exhibited.  Congratulations
to the Marlborough robotics teams!

[Scores](https://ftcscores.com/event/z2fQbLFo)

[Stats](http://ftcstats.org/california.html)

__Tournament schedule:__

* _7:30am_ Check-in, Judging, Inspections
* _10:00am_ Opening Ceremonies
* _10:30am_ Qualifying Matches
* _12:00pm_ Lunch
* _12:30pm_ Qualifying Matches
* _2:30pm_ Alliance Selection
* _3:00pm_ Semi-Final Matches
* _5:00pm_ Awards Ceremony
* _6:00pm_ Event ends


