---
layout: post
title: "Anacapa Island Volunteer Trip"
author: Ms. Collier
date: '2019-03-04'
image: /assets/img/2019-03-04-anacapa.jpg
introduction: Marlborough Students went on a volunteer day trip to Anacapa Island.
tags: ["Science", "STEM+"]
---

Marlborough students had the opportunity to work with biologists from the
California Institute of Environmental Studies to remove invasive plants (aka
weeding) to make room for native plants as part of their current restoration
efforts. 

We had the opportunity to take a group of students to Anacapa Island (Channel
Islands National Park) this weekend. We got to school early, drove in the
pouring rain, and had some incredibly rough ocean to cross.  Despite it all,
our 21 student volunteers (grades 7-12!) showed up and brought much enthusiasm
and positivity. They helped pull cheese weed (see photos) from restoration
plots and a group took a hike to Inspiration Point. The sun came out the latter
half of the day and we were greeted with four California Gray Whales on our
very smooth ride back. 

It was wonderful to see many girls out of their comfort zones (one afraid of
boats!) and really immersing themselves in the day. While they were allowed to
have their phones, they were focused on the tasks at hand, and were laughing
with each other, interfacing with students they didn't know, and greatly
enjoying the mud squishing beneath their feet. It was a great exercise in
enjoying the little things and valuing the sunshine after the rain (quite
literally). We ended the day all tuckered out! 

Thank you to our amazing chaperones: Jay Buckley, Khanichi Charles, and Nicole
Beck who made the day run smoothly and helped travel to and from Channel
Islands Harbor. Thank you to Regina and Laura for funding and allowing this
experience to run. 

[Photos Here](https://photos.app.goo.gl/xMhkc2NwWhwPwmKA8)

_(Nicole Collier, Science instructor)_



