---
layout: post
title: "Robotics 2019-20!"
author: Dr. Kessner
date: '2019-09-19'
image: /assets/img/2019-09-19-robotics-2019-20.jpg
introduction: Our four robotics teams are ready for a new season!
tags: ["Robotics"]
---

The 2019-20 Robotics Season is officially underway!

The Marlborough robotics program competes in a global competition called FIRST
Technical Challenge (FTC). In this competition, students from grades 7-12 work
in teams to design, build, program, and pilot robots to compete head to head
against teams from our region and around the world. On September 7th,
representatives from the FOUR Marlborough roboticsteams attended a kickoff for
the new robot game: SKYSTONE.

In Skystone, students are challenged to construct the tallest possible
skyscraper out of brick-like game elements called 'stones.' Check out the
[official game video here](https://www.firstinspires.org/robotics/ftc/game-and-season).

Our four robotics teams (Marlbots, Curiosity, Cosmos, and Asteria) started off
the season at the LA FTC Kickoff.  They have already begun the design process,
and are excited about the new season.

[Photos here](https://photos.app.goo.gl/VPwjRPBaHuwmKjTV9)

Since kickoff, the teams have been working hard to analyze the game, develop
strategies, and generate robot concepts for each game task. They will need to
work quickly to prepare for their first League Meet on November 2nd. Check out
their full schedule below:

## Season Calendar

Marlborough League Meets in the CEI: These will feature 14-16 teams from around
Los Angeles, including the four Marlborough teams.

__November 2rd__ (afternoon)  
__November 16th__ (morning)  
__December 14th__ (afternoon)  
__January 18th__ (morning)  

InterLeague Tournament at Palmdale Aerospace Academy: This tournament will
combine teams from our League and another League, and will determine
advancement to the Regional Championship.

__January 26th__ (all day)

