---
layout: post
title: "2019 NCGS Conference"
author: Dr. Kessner
date: '2019-06-24'
image: /assets/img/ncgs-AC-2019-logo.png
introduction: Marlborough teachers and administrators participate in the 2019 NCGS
    Conference, at Westridge School in Pasadena.
tags: ["STEM+"]
---

Faculty members and administrators from Marlborough are participating in the
2019 National Coalition of Girls Schools Conference this week.  We hosted 35
conference attendees for a pre-conference visit on Monday.  In addition,
several faculty members are presenting their work at the conference.

__Reflections on “Resistance”: What Girls’ Education Portends for Boys, Healthy
Relationships, and Education__  
_Breakout Session, Laura Hotchkiss, with Randy-Michael Testa (Harvard Graduate
School of Education)_  

__Building a Fun and Exciting Computer Science Curriculum__  
_Inspire Session, Dr. Darren Kessner_  
[slides](http://stem.marlborough.org/ncgs2019)

__Marlborough Robotics and Onshape: How to Embrace CAD and Create Almost Anything__   
_Hands-on Workshop, Andy Witman_  
[slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1scNjtR5YWNc6qK9yks38oTUgYzZkFsX6aYWJxiy-Y_Y/edit?usp=sharing)  

__Engineering for All: A Human-Centered Approach to Building 21st Century Skills__  
_Hands-on Workshop, Dr. Lee Hamill, with Cheryl Farmer (Univ. of Texas)_  

__Reinforcing our Unbreakable Commitment to Girls’ STEM Education__  
_Hands-on Workshop, Dr. Darren Kessner, with Dr. Barbara Bell (Harpeth Hall), 
Dr. Barbara Fishel (Hockaday School), and Eric Walters (Marymount School NY)_  
[slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1_Ww93cJfGPFfhWifbjlY4uJTujKB00DUesQLXHznS1w/edit?usp=sharing),
[ideas captured](https://photos.app.goo.gl/wt342pq9Ekrx4fnH7)

__Connection, Community, and Voice: Social Justice and Digital Citizenship__
_Breakout Session, Shauna Davis, Nikki Gomez, Pamela Wright_    

__10 Insights in 10 Years__  
_Breakout Session, Laura Hotchkiss, with Brad Rathgeber (One Schoolhouse), Kathryn
Albee (Westover School), and Jemma Kennedy (Archer School)_


