---
layout: post
title: "Welcome to the 2020-21 school year!"
author: Dr. Hamill, Dr. Kessner, Mr. Witman
date: '2020-09-21'
image: /assets/img/stem_cropped.png
introduction: Some words of welcome from our STEM teachers!
tags: ["STEM"]
---

We are very excited about STEM in the 2020-21 school year!  Understanding
science and technology has become essential for survival in the online world!

As a single human race, we are facing multiple challenges at once: a global
pandemic, climate change resulting in a record-breaking wildfire and hurricane
season, and worldwide protests in response to ongoing systemic racial
injustice.  Facing these issues will require leaders who understand science and
make decisions based on evidence and data.  We feel that education in the STEM
fields is more important than ever.

We also stand in full support of Marlborough's vision statement 
["Equity Leads Education"](https://www.marlborough.org/about/diversity-equity-inclusion).
Here are some ways in which the STEM+ Program is committed to expanding access
to STEM education for all students.  

* All of our interdisciplinary STEM classes emphasize exploration, skill
  building, and collaboration, and are open to any interested student.

* Our Student STEM Committee is committed to closing the gender gap in STEM by
  increasing student participation in STEM activities and raising student
  awareness of issues in science and technology.

* Our robotics teams continue to be advocates for underrepresented groups in
  STEM, particularly for women and LGBTQ+ students. 

* Our coding club Code Violet is partnered with 
  [Girls Who Code](https://girlswhocode.com/), 
  an organization whose mission is to increase diversity in the tech industry.

* Our Engineering class includes projects that involve designing for people who
  may have limited mobility or other requirements.

* Our computer science curriculum uses only 
  [free and open source software](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software)
  and [open educational resources](https://dkessner.github.io/TeacherResources/). 

* Our Honors Computer Science Projects students are partnering with the Social
  Justice and Community Partnerships department to use their coding skills to
  help local non-profit organizations.  


It's a great time to get involved in STEM!  



Dr. Hamill  
Dr. Kessner  
Mr. Witman  




