---
layout: post
title: "Computer Science Projects 2020-21"
author: Dr. Kessner
date: '2021-04-24'
image: /assets/img/2021-04-24-csprojects2021.png
introduction:  Locked down during a pandemic - let's code!
tags: ["Coding", "STEM+"]
---

{% include base.html %}

The global pandemic and lockdowns this year have shown us how essential 
software is to our lives.  

Computer science and coding skills will only become more important in the
future.  Our students are the scientists and researchers who will be developing
the next generation of mRNA vaccines, the next generation of video conferencing
and collaboration software, and the next generation of robotic explorers of
other planets.

This year's student projects are written in the Processing, Java, and Python
languages.  The projects include video games, computer graphics and visual art,
music visualizations, math explorations, and data analysis and visualization.

Enjoy!


<hr/>

### Computer Programming II _(Mr. Witman)_

__Wyeth '24__  
_A Game_  

Use an umbrella to protect a child moving to the rhythm of "It's Raining Tacos"
from raindroplets and falling tacos.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/2f9WHukFetY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>  

__Emma '25__  
_Keyboard With Octave Change_  

Press the mouse to play the keys. Use the up and down aroows to change octaves.
_
<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/FqEoNLmtE-Q" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>  

__Novin '24__  
_Flappy Bird with pipes moing to the music_   

Try to move the "bird" through the game while the theme music is playing
without hitting any of the moving poles.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jPtiYJYtVgY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>  

__Riley '25__  
_Piano with a Pedal_  

Press keys on your keyboard to play certain notes on the piano! Click the up
arrow to play a scale and hold space to get a stacatto sound.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qCVOQBXVkrg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>  

__Eloise '25__   
_Two Player Platformer_  

Use arrow keys and WASD to move, jump, and shoot your opponent. Make sure not
to touch the lava!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/M4h8--WdMCg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>  

__Lauren '23__  
_Sound Playground that Imitates a DJ Type Setting_  

Uses keyboard to pause and play music. There is a visualization and the mouse
can be clicked to the beat to add fireworks, and on the top left-hand corner
there is a waveform that analyzes one of the songs.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/f8UM98KtyT8" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>  

<br/>

### AP Computer Science _(Dr. Kessner)_

<br/>

__Lexie '23__  
_Mini Game_

This project has a series of different mini games that are challenging and fun!
Have fun playing and trying to pass all the levels!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/dzm6-M00gzY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>  

__Angelita '23__  

In this game the you must maneuver your character down a series of rising
floors to avoid getting squished on the celing. In order to pass each level and
win, make it to the bottom of the screen 15 times. Beware though, as the game
progresses, the floors will rise faster as you go!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/i2G6flEnazQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

__Julianne '22__  
_Rover to Rocket_  

In this project, you must drive the rover to the rocket by rotating the rover
and moving it forwards and backwards. Make sure to avoid the craters!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/HWOknBHQ40Q" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

__Lily '23__  
_Pinball!_  

In this neon and circular version of pinball, the main goal is to achieve the
highest score possible. Your score is calculated by the time spent in one of
the score spots, and once the game ends, a large GAME OVER sign appears across
the screen!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8FNcjvYhD_k" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Eliza '21__  
_Place Invaders_

In this game you have to shoot the falling targets without getting hit
yourself. Make sure to have good aim becuase for each bullet shot, a new target
emerges.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/rUMo2498m-k" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Jocelyn '23__  
_Block Breach_  

In this modernized game of brick breaker, the main goal is simpleâ€”control your
paddle to destroy bricks with a ball. Hitting bricks will allow you to collect
coins that can be used in the shop to customize your game!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xQW33rgEqxc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Tiffany '23__   
_Rocket Game_  
In this game, you need to collide with the stars while also avoiding the
meteorites. Enjoy!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/KMFduSyE-qY" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Senya '23__  
_Circle Aim Trainer_  

In this project you must click on the circles that appear as fast as you can.
If time runs out you fail, but if you click on all the circles before time runs
out, you pass.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/T2hf5NCsGIQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   

__Casey '23__  
_Speed Boat_  

This driving game requires you to take your boat from the shallows to the open
sea, manuevering around the obstacles that come with each depth-zone. Stay away
from rocks, sharks, and whirlpools for a full 90 seconds to win!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zi8etjQZFbM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Layla '22__  
_Wilbur's Interactive Story_  

This project is a choose-your-own adventure story, where a pig named Wilbur
tries to get a flower crown while traveling through a forest. This is a really
fun game with a bunch of different characters, backgrounds, and situations
Wilbur gets in!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/frtb6q1u034" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Shine '23__  
_Etch-A-Sketch_  

This is a classic Etch-A-Sketch game where you have trouble trying to draw what
you want to draw because it takes a lot of time to get the ball to go where you
want it to.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/QWZUQMCodcg" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   

__Sofia '21__  
_Maze Game!_  

This is a game where you have to navigate a maze to win! It is using two 2D
arrays to create the mazes with a player and a couple game states.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sMyGujydB58" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Ezra '22__  
_Rainbow Bubbles_  

Bubbles float around on the screen, and when they are hit by rain they take on
the color of the rain. When a bubble is hit with a white piece of rain, the
bubble will turn white untill hit with a little colorful ball which the player
shoots at the bubbles. The point of the game is to keep all the bubbles
colorful!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/W_6TJ27qJcc" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


<hr/>

### Honors Computer Science Projects _(Dr. Kessner)_

__Brooke '21__  
_Music Lines_  

In this project I used 3D processing and music Minim files to create a line
design that pulses to music.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/8o5_NhxP-xQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Maisie '21__  
_Music Particles_  

I created a particle system with gravity that relies on the level of sound to
determine the size and color of the particles!

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/-m6wHFSmnGA" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Catherine '21__  

_SceneWater/Torus/MetaScene_

In this project, I used P3D and Perlin noise to create a torus floating on water.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_tfjzQ_0kM0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   

_CISLA Data Analysis_

In this project, I used the Python's panda and matplotlib libraries to create
graphs and word clouds from CISLA survey responses.

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ZzNyFAlw02k" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


__Isabelle '21__  

_Perlin Noise Music_

I mapped perlin noise values to piano keys and played them using an AudioOutput
object. 

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qcjR-uLHkqI" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   

_Liberty Hill Data Analysis_  

I analyzed and mapped data of all arrests of minors in LA County in 2019 for
Liberty Hill, an organization that fights for social justice in LA.

Here is a [web version of the interactive map](http://stem.marlborough.org/YouthIncarceration/).

<iframe height="480" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/js217tzI8w0" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>   


<hr/>

Our student coding club Code Violet also created 
[these awesome coding tutorials](https://dkessner.github.io/MarlboroughHourOfCode2020)
for CS Education Week in December 2020.


