---
layout: post
title: "Robotics Championship Update: Curiosity Advances to World Championship"
author: Mr. Witman
date: '2023-03-11'
image: /assets/img/2023-03-11-champs.jpeg
introduction: Marlbots and Curiosity travel to Monrovia and win accolades at the SoCal Regional Championship
tags: ["STEM","Robotics"]
---
This Saturday Marlbots and Curiosity traveled to Monrovia to be among the 42 top teams competing in the SoCal Regional Championship. In an exciting and emotional day of judging and match play, our students represented themselves and Marlborough very well. Curiosity went undefeated in qualifying rounds and secured the No.1 seed, only to stumble and become eliminated from the robot game in the semi-final rounds. Having come so close, Curiosity was understandably devastated by the loss. It wasn't until the awards ceremony that their fortunes turned. Below is a summary of the results;

__Curiosity__
* 1st Place Inspire Award given to the best overall team that is strong in both technical and non-technical award categories.
* Went 5-0 in Qualifying Rounds, Qualified 1st in Robot Game and captained #1 seeded alliance. Ultimately knocked out in the semi-final round.

__Marlbots__
* 1st Place Think award for an outstanding Engineering Portfolio that clearly articulated their team's journey and robot design. (3rd straight year a Marlborough team has won this award at Regionals)
* Went 3-2 in Qualifying Rounds

Curiosity's 1st Place Inspire Award earns the first advancement spot to Worlds in Houston in April. Unfortunately, Marlbots did not advance and are understandably devastated. If you see them please congratulate them on their outstanding accomplishments this season!

## **Quick Links**
[Event Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/Biinczpt5CBdKnpd6)

[SoCal FTC Website](https://socalftc.org/)

[Power Play Game Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HsitvZ0JaDc)
