---
layout: post
title: "Robotics Qualifying: Marlbots & Curiosity Advance to Regional Championship"
author: Mr. Witman
date: '2023-02-26'
image: /assets/img/2023-02-26-ILT.jpg
introduction: All five teams participated in their qualifying tournament, racking up awards in Robot Game and Judged Categories
tags: ["STEM","Robotics"]
---
On Sunday, our five robotics teams traveled to Diamond Bar High School for an InterLeague Qualifying Tournament that included 27 teams from Southern California. Curiosity went undefeated in qualifying match play to secure the 3rd seed, joined forces with Marlbots and AlphaGenesis from Glen A Wilson HS, and they ultimately become the WINNING ALLIANCE. The energy was electric with a huge Marlborough cheering section comprised of parents and the three middle school teams. All five teams represented themselves and Marlborough exceptionally well in the pit and on the field. Shout out to Cosmos for winning an award at a qualifying tournament, a rare feat for a middle school team. Below is a summary of the results; (note that each team can only get 1st in one award; Inspire trumps all awards for advancement eligibility);

__Curiosity__
* 3rd Place Inspire Award given to the 3rd best overall team that is strong in both technical and non-technical award categories.
* 3rd Place Think Award for an outstanding Engineering Portfolio that clearly articulated their team's journey and robot design.
* 1st Place Connect Award for connecting and learning with members of the engineering and alumnae community
* Went undefeated and Qualified 3rd in Robot Game, captained the 3rd seeded alliance, and ultimately became WINNING ALLIANCE CAPTAIN

__Marlbots__
* 2nd Place Think award for an outstanding Engineering Portfolio that clearly articulated their team's journey and robot design.
* 2nd Place Motivate Award for outreach to non-STEM communities
* Qualified 22nd in Robot Game, joined 3rd seeded alliance, and ultimately became WINNING ALLIANCE

__Cosmos__
* 1st Place Motivate Award for outreach to non-STEM communities

Being on the Winning Alliance qualifies Marlbots and Curiosity for the Regional Championship on March 11th, which will bring together the top 42 teams from around Southern California. Though our MS teams (Cosmos, Asteria, and Helios) didn't advance, they performed admirably and gained valuable experience.

## **Quick Links**
[Event Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/M6boTGqhs9AcVGjr6)

[SoCal FTC Website](https://socalftc.org/)

[Power Play Game Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I6lX12idAf8)
