---
layout: post
title: "ASDC 2023"
author: Dr. Kessner
date: '2023-12-31'
image: /assets/img/2023-12-31-asdc_2023.jpg
introduction: Students in Honors Computer Science Projects
  created video projections for the All School Dance Concert.
tags: ["STEM+", "Computer Science"]
---

Students in Honors Computer Science Projects created a wide variety of engaging
visual projections for the All School Dance Concert on Nov 30 / Dec 1.

The projections included a fully immersive experience in the Intimate
Theatre called __Dystopian Reflections: A World Unraveled__ in
collaboration with dance teacher Holly Rothschild.  

The installation was a collaboration between dancers, coders, and a
sound designer. This immersive experience was inspired by the
collaboration between dance pioneer Merce Cunningham, sound artist John
Cage, and visual artist Robert Rauschenberg. The trio worked together
in the late 1960s and early 70s in a collaborative process they called
Chance Dance. Chance Dance was based around the concept that audience
members could experience the performance as a whole or separate each
individual element into its own experience. They also employed Chance
as a construct out of a desire to explore the unexpected. A great deal
of preparation and thought went into their process, however, elements
of surprise and serendipity were included in their vocabulary. For our
process in the Intimate Theatre, the coders and sound designer came up
with a list of items they identified as dystopian. The coders fed the
list into generative AI and asked for a poem. AI generated a poem and
each group used it as their source material for their creative process.  

- [Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/xkwBKHnoV6vXXC4A6)
- [Video](https://youtu.be/vZNSXG1-3dU)
- [360 video](https://youtu.be/g-5wHg8YI7M)


