---
layout: post
title: "Robotics Championship Update: Curiosity REPEAT as SoCal Champs"
author: Mr. Witman
date: '2024-03-09'
image: /assets/img/2024-03-09-championship.jpg
introduction: Stratus and Curiosity travel to Monrovia and win accolades at the SoCal Regional Championship
tags: ["STEM","Robotics"]
---
Hi All,

This Saturday Curiosity and Stratus traveled to Monrovia to be among the 42 top teams competing in the SoCal Regional Championship. In an exciting and emotional day of judging and match play, our students represented themselves and Marlborough very well. Curiosity put on an impressive display that was representative of their status as the defending champions. Even still, the team knew that it would be exceptionally difficult to secure any of the four advancement spots to the World Championship. Match play was thrilling throughout the day. Curiosity put up huge scores but had some tough matchups that ultimately left them at the mercy of alliance selection. Stratus had a consistently strong autonomous and endgame performance, which helped them earn a 4-1 record and the number 3 seed. Stratus was able to successfully navigate the alliance selection and put themselves in the best possible position to succeed. Although they were ultimately eliminated in the semi-final round, it was a tremendous learning experience for this group of 8th graders. Below is a summary of the results;

__Curiosity__
* 1st Place Inspire Award given to the best overall team that is strong in both technical and non-technical award categories.
* Went 3-2 in Qualifying Rounds, qualified 15th in Robot Game and joined Stratus in number 3 seeded alliance. Ultimately knocked out in the semi-final round.

__Stratus__
* In match play earned the 13th highest OPR and 8th highest average score
* Went 4-1 in Qualifying Rounds, qualified 3rd in Robot Game and captained the number 3 seeded alliance. Ultimately knocked out in the semi-final round.

Curiosity's 1st Place Inspire Award earns them the top advancement spot to Worlds in Houston in April. Unfortunately, Stratus did not advance and are understandably devastated. If you see them please congratulate them on their outstanding work this season.

## **Quick Links**
[Event Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/Du1vZedxfy2F6mMe7)

[SoCal FTC Website](https://socalftc.org/)
