---
layout: post
title: "Robotics Qualifying: Stratus & Curiosity Advance to Regional Championship"
author: Mr. Witman
date: '2024-02-03'
image: /assets/img/2024-02-03-ILT.jpg
introduction: All six teams participated in their qualifying tournament, racking up awards in Robot Game and Judged Categories
tags: ["STEM","Robotics"]
---

Hi All,

On Saturday, our six robotics teams traveled to Perris for a Qualifying Tournament that included 26 teams from Southern California. Marlborough teams represented themselves exceptionally well on the field, in the pit, and with the judges. Our teams also exhibited a lot of school spirit by helping each other out and cheering for each other throughout the day. Shout out to Stratus for winning an award AND being on the winning alliance, an exceptional feat for a rookie team of 8th graders competing against primarily upper school teams. Below is a summary of the results; (note that each team can only get 1st in one award; Inspire trumps all awards for advancement eligibility);

__Stratus__
* 1st Place Control Award for incorporating sensors and intelligent control to improve robot performance.
* 2nd Place Design Award for a cohesive, functional, and aesthetic robot design.
* Went 4-1 (14-1 overall record) and Qualified 2nd in Robot Game, joined Beach Bots in #1 seeded alliance, and went undefeated in elimination rounds to become the WINNING ALLIANCE.

__Curiosity__
* 3rd Place Inspire Award given to the 3rd best overall team that is strong in both technical and non-technical award categories.
* 1st Place Connect Award for connecting and learning with members of the engineering and alumnae community.
* Kailyn S. and Riley Y. '25 were recognized as Dean's List Semi-Finalists for outstanding contributions to their team.
* Went 3-2 (11-4 overall record) and Qualified 11th in Robot Game, joined Marlbots in #2 alliance, and ultimately knocked out in semi-finals.

__Marlbots__
* 2nd Place Connect Award for connecting and learning with members of the engineering and alumnae community.
* 2nd Place Control award for incorporating sensors and intelligent control to improve robot performance.
* 3rd Place Motivate Award for outreach to non-STEM communities.
* Ali E. and Vic P. '25' were recognized as Dean's List Semi-Finalists for outstanding contributions to their team.
* Went 3-1-1 (13-1-1 overall record) and Qualified 3rd in Robot Game, allied with Curiosity and captained #2 alliance, and ultimately was knocked out in the semi-final round.

__Asteria__
* 2nd Place Think award for an outstanding Engineering Portfolio that clearly articulated their team's journey and robot design.
* 2nd Place Motivate Award for outreach to non-STEM communities.
* Earned an 11-3-1 overall record for the season, qualifying 7th of 26 teams.

Being on the Winning Alliance (Stratus) and 3rd place Inspire (Curiosity) qualifies them for the Regional Championship on March 9th, which will bring together the top 42 teams from around Southern California. Sadly, our other teams (Marlbots, Cosmos, Asteria, and Helios) didn't advance. Congratulations to those teams for an outstanding season!

## **Quick Links**
[Event Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/Ja2YB5eG36eXdSza7)

[SoCal FTC Website](https://socalftc.org/)
