---
layout: post
title: "Robotics Qualifying: Four Marlborough Teams Advance to Regional Championship"
author: Mr. Witman
date: '2025-01-26'
image: /assets/img/2025-01-26-ILT.jpg
introduction: All five teams participated in their qualifying tournament, racking up awards in Robot Game and Judged Categories
tags: ["STEM","Robotics"]
---

Dear All,

This Sunday will go down as a proud moment for Marlborough Robotics. Our five teams traveled to Diamond Bar for a Qualifying Tournament that included a total of 28 teams from around Southern California. From the moment we arrived, the teams were locked into a desperate struggle requiring almost complete attention for the duration of the 9 hour event. Articulate pitches were made to judges, alliances were negotiated under intense pressure, and students worked feverishly to repair mechanisms and tweak code. It was an exceptionally successful day as Marlborough went on to win the top three judged awards, earn spots on the Winning Alliance and Finalist Alliance, and ultimately earn four out of the five advancement spots to the Regional Championship. Highlights included Asteria and Stratus facing off in an intense, high scoring finals match and all the Marlborough teams enthusiastically cheering each other's success. Below is a link to photos/videos and some highlights from the day.

Link to Photos

__Marlbots__
* 1st Place Inspire Award, given to the best overall team that is strong in both technical and non-technical award categories.
* 7th highest Offensive Power Ranking (OPR), technical problems in the later rounds ultimately cost them being selected for playoffs.

__Asteria__
* 2nd Place Inspire Award, given to the 2nd best overall team that is strong in both technical and non-technical award categories.
* Went 5-0 in qualifying rounds, had the #1 highest OPR, joined #1 seeded alliance with a Brentwood Team and became the Winning Alliance.

__Curiosity__
* 3rd Place Inspire Award, given to the 3rd best overall team that is strong in both technical and non-technical award categories.
* 5th highest OPR, joined #6 seed alliance with a different Brentwood Team and ultimately eliminated in playoffs.

__Stratus__
* Innovate Award for a unique robot mechanism that performs well in competition.
* Went 4-1 in qualifying rounds, Captained #2 seeded alliance and invited a Vistamar Team, ultimately lost in final to Asteria to become Finalist Alliance Captain.

__Helios__
* Despite missing their primary robot driver to illness, earned a 3-2 record in Qualifying Rounds and was ranked 11th of 28.

The Inspire Awards and being the Finalist Alliance Captain qualify Marlbots, Asteria, Curiosity, and Stratus for the Regional Championship on March 8th! 

## **Quick Links**
[Event Photos](https://photos.app.goo.gl/jYeTzbgoLfi2ABMf6)

[SoCal FTC Website](https://socalftc.org/)