---
layout: post
title: "A Letter to the Class of 2020"
author: Dr. Kessner
date: '2020-05-28'
image: /assets/img/2020-05-28-letter-class-2020.jpg
introduction:  A letter to the Class of 2020, on the day of your graduation
  Car Parade.
tags: ["STEM+"]
---

## A Letter to the Class of 2020

### The Golden Age

We are living in a Golden Age of human intellect.  Over the past 2 centuries,
human understanding and mastery of science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics (what we now call the STEM fields) has created the modern world.
Our understanding of biology, microbes and disease has had a drastic impact on
human welfare.  Whereas a person born 200 years ago was expected to live 30-40
years, life expectancy today is 70-80 years.

Our knowledge of genetics and evolution has been fundamental to our
understanding and treatment of disease.  This knowledge has led to the
eradication of several diseases through the development of vaccines.  More
importantly, understanding of mutation and evolution is essential for the
treatment of diseases such as AIDS and cancer.  As the evolutionary biologist
Theodosius Dobzhansky expressed, "nothing in biology makes sense except in the
light of evolution".  

### The Dark Age

We are simultaneously living in a Dark Age of human intellect.  In spite of the
fact that they are alive and free from disesase, 40% of American citizens do
not believe in evolution.  Over the past several decades, politicians have
watered these seeds of ignorance, growing them into a full-bloomed distrust of
science and scientists.  This has led to a lack of action on the greatest
threat to human civilization today: climate change.  While scientists are near
consensus on the role of human activity on the climate, roughly 40% of American
citizens do not believe the country should take any further action.

And unfortunately this distrust of science has led our country to a slow and
awkward response to the current coronavirus pandemic.  While scientists were
sounding the alarm in the Red Dawn emails in January, the country did not act
until it was too late to contain the virus.  As a result, we have resorted to
blunt mitigation measures such as stay-at-home orders, social distancing, and
face masks instead.  

### The Renaissance

Your generation is facing unprecedented crises.  Responding to these crises
will require the creative problem-solving skills you have learned in Math,
Science, interdisciplinary STEM classes, and the Honors Research program.

However, to create lasting change will require all of the skills you have
gained at Marlborough.  Solving the world's problems will require the
creativity you nurtured in our Visual and Performing Arts programs, the
communication and cultural awareness you developed in World Languages, the
teamwork and discipline you practiced in Physical Education and Athletics, the
global perspective you gained in your History and Social Sciences classes, the
analytical and persuasive writing skills you honed in your English classes, the
innovation and presentation skills you refined in Entrepreneurship, the
communication and technology skills you learned in Media and Digital
Citizenship classes, and the empathy you cultivated in the Social Justice
program.

So while the challenges ahead may appear difficult, remember that you are more
prepared than anyone to meet these challenges.  And remember that your teachers
are cheering you on.


Dr. Kessner



